#summary Details about the data-ez-sayrole attribute.

{{{
<div class="label" id="switch1label"
data-ez-focusable="false">Front Light:</div>

<div class="switch" onclick="flipSwitch();"
aria-labelledby="switch1label"
data-ez-sayrole="switch" 
data-ez-sayvalue="is on">
  <span class="selected">On</span>
  <span>Off</span>
</div>
}}}
Such an element, which would look and act like a light switch, would be read as:
 "Front light: switch is on"

= Description =
A role is the main indication to the user about what type of object, element, or control with which a person may interact. By default for controls, the role is spoken after the name (which is frequently a label) for the control. The `data-ez-sayrole` attribute can be used to specify a role to be spoken to the user.

  * Applies to: all content elements except `<body>`
  * Inheritable: no
  * Supported since: 1.0.0

== Values ==
  * `data-ez-sayrole="`_`string`_`"`
    * _string_ is the string to be spoken as the role for the given element.

== Behavior with missing attribute ==
The speech output for the role is the default for that type of element, which might be based on ARIA roles or native HTML roles.

== Best practices ==
  * Use HTML native elements where possible.
  * Use appropriate, supported [http://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/roles ARIA roles] if no native HTML elements are sufficient.

Using the `data-ez-sayrole` attribute where there are no appropriate HTML elements or ARIA roles:
  * Use short text (one or two words)  for roles.
  * The role ideally should be a concept with which a user is already familiar (such as a switch like the example above). The user should have a strong sense of what should happen if the activate the element.

== See also ==
  * [attrSayvalue `data-ez-sayvalue` attribute]